Dear Math for Robotics:     30  January 2026
 
     Here is a completion of the code I wrote in class today.  It breaks the Euler code into three parts:
·        The main script file.
·        A RHS function
·        A general-purpose Euler method solver function
 
Inside the attached folder are two things:
        1) A single script that contains two functions
          2) A folder that contains the same thing, broken into 3 separate files.
              This is probably easier to read. And, maybe easier to understand.
 
While you can look freely at these examples, you should learn to write them yourself with the only help being the matlab help.

Your Homework, due this Sunday at 11 PM is:
     1) Master all parts of the Pratap Matlab book that we posted on Moodle
      2) Use the definition of derivative to calculate the derivative of sine(x) at x = 1.
           Compare that to the exact value (meaning cos(1).
           Plot error vs h (log log plot) and note that there is a best h because of the competition between
           Method error and roundoff error.
           Extra credit,   using the Matlab resolution of Matlab’s  “eps” (look it up), estimate the best h for this calculation and compare
           It with the minimum on your graph.
     3) Complete the exercises from the Tutorial on Thursday morning 29 January.
     4) Demonstrate that you can write code equivalent
         to what I have attached here. If you do that first, you can use it to
         make the error plots asked for in class Thursday 29 Jan.
         You should be able to write it using Matlab help and no more.
      5) Cook up, or find, some ODE, or set of first order ODEs, and solve them and explore something hopefully-interesting about the solution.

Keep within the time budget, but not much below, of 4.5 hours of non-classroom work per week.  By Sunday we will be at almost 3 weeks.  If you only get so far within the time allotment, that is that.  Learn as much as you can within the time budget.
